OSPF NOTES

A cost is associated with the output side of each router
interface. This cost is configurable by the system
administrator. The lower the cost, the more likely the
interface is to be used to forward data traffic.

When no OSPF areas are configured, each router in the Autonomous
System has an identical link-state database, leading to an
identical graphical representation. A router generates its
routing table from this graph by calculating a tree of shortest
paths with the router itself as root.

After the tree is created the external routing information is
examined. This external routing information may originate from
another routing protocol such as BGP, or be statically
configured (static routes). Default routes can also be included
as part of the Autonomous System’s external routing information.
External routing information is flooded unaltered throughout the
AS.

OSPF supports two types of external metrics. 
Type 1 external metrics are expressed in the same units as OSPF interface cost.
Type 2 external metrics are an order of magnitude larger; any Type 2 metric is
considered greater than the cost of any path internal to the AS.
Use of Type 2 external metrics assumes that routing between
AS’es is the major cost of routing a packet, and eliminates the
need for conversion of external costs to internal link state
metrics.

Looking at this another way, inter-area routing can be pictured
as forcing a star configuration on the Autonomous System, with
the backbone as hub and each of the non-backbone areas as
spokes.

The correct area border router to use as the packet exits the
source area is chosen in exactly the same way routers
advertising external routes are chosen. Each area border router
in an area summarizes for the area its cost to all networks
external to the area. After the SPF tree is calculated for the
area, routes to all inter-area destinations are calculated by
examining the summaries of the area border routers.

An OSPF AS-external-LSA is usually flooded throughout the entire AS. 
However, OSPF allows certain areas to be configured as "stub areas". 
AS-external-LSAs are not flooded into/throughout stub areas;
routing to AS external destinations in these areas is based on a
(per-area) default only.

One or more of the stub area’s area border routers must advertise a
default route into the stub area via summary-LSAs. 
These summary defaults are flooded throughout the stub area, but no further.

OSPF creates adjacencies between neighboring routers for the purpose
of exchanging routing information. Not every two neighboring
routers will become adjacent.

The Designated Router is elected by the Hello Protocol. A
router’s Hello Packet contains its Router Priority, which is
configurable on a per-interface basis. In general, when a
router’s interface to a network first becomes functional, it
checks to see whether there is currently a Designated Router for
the network. If there is, it accepts that Designated Router,
regardless of its Router Priority. (This makes it harder to
predict the identity of the Designated Router, but ensures that
the Designated Router changes less often. See below.)
Otherwise, the router itself becomes Designated Router if it has
the highest Router Priority on the network.

The Designated Router is the endpoint of many adjacencies. In
order to optimize the flooding procedure on broadcast networks,
the Designated Router multicasts its Link State Update Packets
to the address AllSPFRouters, rather than sending separate
packets over each adjacency.

INTERFACE RELATED DATA: 
-----------------------
HelloInterval
The length of time, in seconds, between the Hello packets that
the router sends on the interface. Advertised in Hello packets
sent out this interface.

RouterDeadInterval
The number of seconds before the router’s neighbors will declare
it down, when they stop hearing the router’s Hello Packets.
Advertised in Hello packets sent out this interface.

Router Priority
An 8-bit unsigned integer. When two routers attached to a
network both attempt to become Designated Router, the one with
the highest Router Priority takes precedence. A router whose
Router Priority is set to 0 is ineligible to become Designated
Router on the attached network. Advertised in Hello packets
sent out this interface.

Interface output cost(s)
The cost of sending a data packet on the interface, expressed in
the link state metric. This is advertised as the link cost for
this interface in the router-LSA. The cost of an interface must
be greater than zero.

